Add 2023 Community Kickoff & Stats posts (#1870)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/write-the-docs-2022-stats.rst

.. post:: Jan 13, 2023
   :tags: stats, year in review
   :author: Eric Holscher

Write the Docs 2022 Stats
=========================

This year we have done a :doc:`/blog/2023-january-update` post along with our stats, which has more context and information about where we're headed in 2023.

Unfortunately our Podcast has been in hiatus for a while with no new episodes in 2022,
so we have removed it from the stats post.

2022 Stats
----------

> We have shared our high-level community stats for the past 5 years,
> and will continue to do it each year going forward.
> 
> You can read our previous posts from 2016_, 2017_, 2018_, 2019_, 2020_, 2022_.
> 
> .. _2022: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2022-stats/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have shared our high-level community stats since 2016,
and will continue to do it each year going forward.

You can read our previous posts from 2016_, 2017_, 2018_, 2019_, 2020_, _2021_, 2022_.

.. _2022: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2022-stats/
.. _2021: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2021-stats/
```

Reviewer: Amazing how we kinda just kept doing stuff in the last couple of years. Go past us!

.. _2020: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2020-stats/
.. _2019: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2019-stats/
.. _2018: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2018-stats/
.. _2017: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2017-stats/
.. _2016: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2016-year-in-review/

Conferences
~~~~~~~~~~~

* 600 attendees in Portland (down from 650)
* 225 attendees in Prague (down from 330)
* 100 attendees in Australia (no conference in 2022)

We were excited to see continued success of the virtual conferences,
but it definitely felt like more people are slowly yearning to return to in-person.

> The world has also had another large shock with the war in Ukraine,

Reviewer: Surely?

```suggestion
The world has also had another large shock with the Russian invasion of Ukraine,
```

> which we expect to have lowered our 2022 attendance in Prague.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which we expect to have lowered our 2022 attendance in Prague.
```

The feels extremely "us centered" and I'd prefer to delete.

.. post:: Jan 13, 2023
   :tags: stats, year in review
   :author: Eric Holscher

Write the Docs 2022 Stats
=========================

> This year we have done a :doc:`/blog/2023-january-community-update` post along with our stats.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This year we have done a :doc:`/blog/2023-january-community-update` post along with our stats, which has more context and information about where we're headed in 2023.
```

> Check there for context around the community going into 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Unfortunately our Podcast has been in hiatus for a while with no new episodes in 2022,
so we have removed it from the stats post.

2022 Stats
----------

We have shared our high-level community stats for the past 5 years,
and will continue to do it each year going forward.

You can read our previous posts from 2016_, 2017_, 2018_, 2019_, 2020_, 2022_.

.. _2022: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2022-stats/
.. _2020: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2020-stats/
.. _2019: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2019-stats/
.. _2018: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2018-stats/
.. _2017: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2017-stats/
.. _2016: https://www.writethedocs.org/blog/write-the-docs-2016-year-in-review/

Conferences
~~~~~~~~~~~

> * 650 attendees in Portland (down from 650)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 650 attendees in Portland (down from 650)
```

LOL what did we mean here?

Reviewer: I reckon mention online here, for accuracy

Author: Ah yea, it's meant to be 600.

> * 225 attendees in Prague (up from 330)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 225 attendees in Prague (up from 330)
```

ALSO LOL

Author: Bleh.

* 100 attendees in Australia (no conference in 2022)

We were excited to see continued success of the virtual conferences,
but it definitely felt like more people are slowly yearning to return to in-person.
The world has also had another large shock with the war in Ukraine,
which we expect to have lowered our 2022 attendance in Prague.

Slack Network
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* 18,339 :doc:`members </slack>` (up from 15,012)

> Newsletters
> ~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Newsletter subscribers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

* 10,558 :doc:`subscribers </newsletter>` (up from 9,237)

This is across all our various mailing lists (conference-specific and community newsletter).

Meetups
~~~~~~~

> * Over 10,000 :doc:`members </meetups/index> (too many to count)

Reviewer: Should we mention we don't track attendees?

Author: Not 100% sure I follow?

Reviewer: I mean we're counting people in the meetup groups, not people attending meetups. it's pretty trivial. Feel free to ignore.

Last year we stopped counting total meetups because we launched Quorum meetups that cover a larger geographic area.
We're excited to see a return to in-person meetups,
with the easing of COVID concerns in various areas where we have meetups.

Website
~~~~~~~

* 270,000 sessions (up from 250,000)
* 440,000 page views (up from 395,000)

Our website traffic is generally pretty stable,
but we do see spikes around our conferences.

> This number comes from Google Analytics which many users are blocking,

Reviewer: Should we look into changing to a more neutral analytics tool? @StarfallProjects has recommended on in the past I believe.

Author: Yea, we could use Plausible. It costs like $10/mo, but I think we can afford it :)

Reviewer: Tracking in https://github.com/writethedocs/www/issues/1871
